DataStructres:
DataStructure is an efficient way of save and retriving Data.

Basic Datastructres:
1) Array
2) LinkedLists
3) Stack
4) Queue
5) Binary Tree
6) Binary Search Tree
7) Heap
8) Hashing


Array:
An array is a collection of items stored at contiguous memory locations. The idea is to store multiple items of the same type together. This makes it easier to calculate the position of each element by simply adding an offset to a base value, i.e., the memory location of the first element of the array (generally denoted by the name of the array).

Properties of Array:
1. Can contain multiple instance of a type
2. Numeric indexing
3. Accesing individual items
4. Static or Dynamic sizing
5. Fixed size once created

Big O notation:
Big O notation is a mathematical notation that describes the limiting behavior of a function when the argument tends towards a particular value or infinity.

Assumtions:
O(n+1) is O(n) => we are neglecting any constant no
O(2n) is O(n) => we are neglecting any constant multiplication

Big O notation examles:
O(1) - Example
=> Inserging an element at first in a linked list
=> adding two no

O(n) - Example
=> printing all the nos of an linked list/array ( single foreach)

O(n^2) - Example
=>  (nested two foreach)

O(log n) - Example
=> Inserting a new element in the arraged linked list
e.g: (1,2,4,7,8,9, 10) insert no 5 in the following list.

O(mn) - Example
=> nested foreach with two different limits

LinkedList:
A linked list is a linear data structure, in which the elements are not stored at contiguous memory locations. 
The elements in a linked list are linked using pointers as shown in the below image:

DoubleLinkedLists:
A Doubly Linked List (DLL) contains an extra pointer, typically called previous pointer, 
together with next pointer and data which are there in singly linked list.

Stack:
Stack is a linear data structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. 
The order may be LIFO(Last In First Out) or FILO(First In Last Out).

Queue:
A Queue is a linear structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. 
The order is First In First Out (FIFO). 
A good example of a queue is any queue of consumers for a resource where the consumer that came first is served first. 
The difference between stacks and queues is in removing. In a stack we remove the item the most recently added; 
in a queue, we remove the item the least recently added.
